# Phylogenetic reconstruction of *Astyanax mexicanus*

## INTRODUCTION.

*Astyanax mexicanus* is notable for developing characters related to life in caves such as eye loss and pigmentation, through a process of regressive evolution (Jeffery, 2009; Herman *et al*, 2018). The troglobial species of Astyanax mexicanus have become a central model for understanding the evolution of various ontogenetic, physiological and behavioral characters (Keene et al, 2015). The loss of traits is a commonly observed evolutionary pattern in cave organisms, but due to extensive morphological convergence, inferring relationships between cave and surface populations can be difficult. For instance, *Astyanax mexicanus* (the blind Mexican cavefish) is thought to have repeatedly lost its eyes following colonization of cave environments, but the number of evolutionarily independent invasions of this species into caves remains unclear (Coghill *et al*., 2014).

Using RAD SEQ raw data generated in Coghill et al. (2014) ("Next generation phylogeography of cave and surface Astyanax mexicanus")i will try to ese the iPyRAD package to make a *de novo assembly* of the loci. Once assembled, a fraction of the RAD Loci obtained will be use to do a phylogenetic reconstruction using RAXML V8.2.10 and compare the topologies. 

## Work organization.

This repository it's organized in the next way:

`BIN` Folder: this folder will contain the input document with the parameters for the RADSeq assemble generated by iPyRAd, and the parameters for the ML reconstruction in RaxML v8.2.10.

`DATA` Folder: this folder will contain the RAW RADSeq data from Coghill *et al*., (2014), the outputs of the seven steps in iPyRAD (Eaton, 2014).

`FIGURES`Folder: will contain the raw phylogenetic tree made with RAxML v8.2.10 (Stamatakis,2014).

**Cites**

1) Jeffery, W. R. (2009). Regressive evolution in Astyanax cavefish. Annual review of genetics, 43, 25-47.
2) Stamatakis, A. (2014). RAxML version 8: a tool for phylogenetic analysis and post-analysis of large phylogenies. *Bioinformatics*, 30(9), 1312-1313.
3) McGaugh, S. E., Gross, J. B., Aken, B., Blin, M., Borowsky, R., Chalopin, D., ... & Minx, P. (2014). The cavefish genome reveals candidate genes for eye loss. *Nature communications*, 5, 5307.
4) Herman, A., Brandvain, Y., Weagley, J., Jeffery, W. R., Keene, A. C., Kono, T. J., ... & Ornelas‐García, C. P. (2018). The role of gene flow in rapid and repeated evolution of cave‐related traits in Mexican tetra, Astyanax mexicanus. *Molecular ecology*, 27(22), 4397-4416.
